a colourless, odourless, highly flammable gas, the chemical element of atomic number 1.
the chemical element of atomic number 2, an inert gas which is the lightest member of the noble gas series.
the chemical element of atomic number 3, a soft silver-white metal. It is the lightest of the alkali metals.
the chemical element of atomic number 4, a hard grey metal.
the chemical element of atomic number 5, a non-metallic solid.
the chemical element of atomic number 6, a non-metal which has two main forms (diamond and graphite) and which also occurs in impure form in charcoal, soot, and coal.
the chemical element of atomic number 7, a colourless, odourless unreactive gas that forms about 78 per cent of the earth's atmosphere. Liquid nitrogen (made by distilling liquid air) boils at 77.4 kelvins (−195.8°C) and is used as a coolant.
a colourless, odourless reactive gas, the chemical element of atomic number 8 and the life-supporting component of the air.
the chemical element of atomic number 9, a poisonous pale yellow gas of the halogen series. It is the most reactive of all the elements, causing very severe burns on contact with skin.
the chemical element of atomic number 10, an inert gaseous element of the noble gas group. It is obtained by the distillation of liquid air and is used in fluorescent lamps and illuminated advertising signs.
the chemical element of atomic number 11, a soft silver-white reactive metal of the alkali metal group.
the chemical element of atomic number 12, a silver-white metal of the alkaline earth series. It is used to make strong lightweight alloys, and is also used in flash bulbs and pyrotechnics, as it burns with a brilliant white flame.
the chemical element of atomic number 13, a light silvery-grey metal.
the chemical element of atomic number 14, a non-metal with semiconducting properties, used in making electronic circuits. Pure silicon exists in a shiny dark grey crystalline form and as an amorphous powder.
the chemical element of atomic number 15, a poisonous, combustible non-metal which exists in two common allotropic forms, white phosphorus, a yellowish waxy solid which ignites spontaneously in air and glows in the dark, and red phosphorus, a less reactive form used in making matches.
the chemical element of atomic number 16, a yellow combustible non-metal.
the chemical element of atomic number 17, a toxic, irritant, pale green gas.
the chemical element of atomic number 18, an inert gaseous element of the noble gas group. Argon is the commonest noble gas, making up nearly one per cent of the earth's atmosphere.
the chemical element of atomic number 19, a soft silvery-white reactive metal of the alkali metal group.
the chemical element of atomic number 20, a soft grey metal.
the chemical element of atomic number 21, a soft silvery-white metal generally included among the rare earth elements.
the chemical element of atomic number 22, a hard silver-grey metal of the transition series, used in strong, light, corrosion-resistant alloys.
the chemical element of atomic number 23, a hard grey metal of the transition series, used to make alloy steels.
the chemical element of atomic number 24, a hard white metal used in stainless steel and other alloys.
the chemical element of atomic number 25, a hard grey metal of the transition series. Manganese is an important component of special steels and magnetic alloys.
a strong, hard magnetic silvery-grey metal, the chemical element of atomic number 26, much used as a material for construction and manufacturing, especially in the form of steel.
the chemical element of atomic number 27, a hard silvery-white magnetic metal.
a silvery-white metal, the chemical element of atomic number 28.
a red-brown metal, the chemical element of atomic number 29.
the chemical element of atomic number 30, a silvery-white metal that is a constituent of brass and is used for coating (galvanizing) iron and steel to protect against corrosion.
the chemical element of atomic number 31, a soft silvery-white metal which melts at about 30°C, just above room temperature.
the chemical element of atomic number 32, a shiny grey metalloid. Germanium was important in the making of transistors and other semiconductor devices, but has been largely replaced by silicon.
the chemical element of atomic number 33, a brittle steel-grey metalloid.
the chemical element of atomic number 34, a grey crystalline non-metal with semiconducting properties.
the chemical element of atomic number 35, a dark red fuming toxic liquid with a choking, irritating smell. It is a member of the halogen group and occurs chiefly in the form of salts in seawater and brines.
the chemical element of atomic number 36, a member of the noble gas series. It is obtained by distillation of liquid air, and is used in some kinds of electric light.
the chemical element of atomic number 37, a rare soft silvery reactive metal of the alkali metal group.
the chemical element of atomic number 38, a soft silver-white metal of the alkaline earth series.
the chemical element of atomic number 39, a greyish-white metal generally included among the rare earth elements.
the chemical element of atomic number 40, a hard silver-grey metal of the transition series.
the chemical element of atomic number 41, a silver-grey metal of the transition series, used in superconducting alloys.
the chemical element of atomic number 42, a brittle silver-grey metal of the transition series, used in some alloy steels.
the chemical element of atomic number 43, a radioactive metal. Technetium was the first element to be created artificially, in 1937, by bombarding molybdenum with deuterons.
the chemical element of atomic number 44, a hard silvery-white metal of the transition series.
the chemical element of atomic number 45, a hard silvery-white metal of the transition series, typically occurring in association with platinum.
the chemical element of atomic number 46, a rare silvery-white metal resembling platinum.
a precious shiny greyish-white metal, the chemical element of atomic number 47.
the chemical element of atomic number 48, a silvery-white metal.
the chemical element of atomic number 49, a soft silvery-white metal occurring naturally in association with zinc and some other metals.
a silvery-white metal, the chemical element of atomic number 50.
the chemical element of atomic number 51, a brittle silvery-white metalloid.
the chemical element of atomic number 52, a brittle, shiny, silvery-white metalloid resembling selenium and occurring mainly in small amounts in metallic sulphide ores.
the chemical element of atomic number 53, a non-metallic element forming black crystals and a violet vapour.
the chemical element of atomic number 54, a member of the noble gas series. It is obtained by distillation of liquid air, and is used in some specialized electric lamps.
the chemical element of atomic number 55, a soft, silvery, extremely reactive metal. It belongs to the alkali metal group and occurs as a trace element in some rocks and minerals.
the chemical element of atomic number 56, a soft white reactive metal of the alkaline earth group.
the chemical element of atomic number 57, a silvery-white rare earth metal.
the chemical element of atomic number 58, a silvery-white metal. It is the most abundant of the lanthanide elements and is the main component of the alloy misch metal.
the chemical element of atomic number 59, a soft silvery-white metal of the lanthanide series.
the chemical element of atomic number 60, a silvery-white metal of the lanthanide series. Neodymium is a component of misch metal and some other alloys, and its compounds are used in colouring glass and ceramics.
the chemical element of atomic number 61, a radioactive metal of the lanthanide series. It was first produced artificially in a nuclear reactor and occurs in nature in traces as a product of uranium fission.
the chemical element of atomic number 62, a hard silvery-white metal of the lanthanide series.
the chemical element of atomic number 63, a soft silvery-white metal of the lanthanide series. Europium oxide is used with yttrium oxide as a red phosphor in colour television screens.
the chemical element of atomic number 64, a soft silvery-white metal of the lanthanide series.
the chemical element of atomic number 65, a silvery-white metal of the lanthanide series.
the chemical element of atomic number 66, a soft silvery-white metal of the lanthanide series.
the chemical element of atomic number 67, a soft silvery-white metal of the lanthanide series.
the chemical element of atomic number 68, a soft silvery-white metal of the lanthanide series.
the chemical element of atomic number 69, a soft silvery-white metal of the lanthanide series.
the chemical element of atomic number 70, a silvery-white metal of the lanthanide series.
the chemical element of atomic number 71, a rare silvery-white metal of the lanthanide series.
the chemical element of atomic number 72, a hard silver-grey metal of the transition series, resembling and often occurring with zirconium.
the chemical element of atomic number 73, a hard silver-grey metal of the transition series.
the chemical element of atomic number 74, a hard steel-grey metal of the transition series. It has a very high melting point (3410°C) and is used to make electric light filaments.
the chemical element of atomic number 75, a rare silvery-white metal which occurs in trace amounts in ores of molybdenum and other metals.
the chemical element of atomic number 76, a hard, dense silvery-white metal of the transition series.
the chemical element of atomic number 77, a hard, dense silvery-white metal.
a precious silvery-white metal, the chemical element of atomic number 78. It was first encountered by the Spanish in South America in the 16th century, and is used in jewellery, electrical contacts, laboratory equipment, and industrial catalysts.
a yellow precious metal, the chemical element of atomic number 79, used especially in jewellery and decoration and to guarantee the value of currencies.
the chemical element of atomic number 80, a heavy silvery-white metal which is liquid at ordinary temperatures.
the chemical element of atomic number 81, a soft silvery-white metal that occurs naturally in small amounts in pyrite and other ores. Its compounds are very poisonous.
a soft, heavy, ductile bluish-grey metal, the chemical element of atomic number 82. It has been used in roofing, plumbing, ammunition, storage batteries, radiation shields, etc., and its compounds have been used in crystal glass, as an anti-knock agent in petrol, and (formerly) in paints.
the chemical element of atomic number 83, a brittle reddish-tinged grey metal.
the chemical element of atomic number 84, a radioactive metal occurring in nature only as a product of radioactive decay of uranium.
the chemical element of atomic number 85, a radioactive member of the halogen group. It was first produced by bombarding bismuth with alpha particles, and it occurs in traces in nature as a decay product.
the chemical element of atomic number 86, a rare radioactive gas belonging to the noble gas series.
the chemical element of atomic number 87, a radioactive member of the alkali metal group. It occurs naturally as a decay product in uranium and thorium ores.
the chemical element of atomic number 88, a rare radioactive metal of the alkaline earth series. It was formerly used as a source of radiation for radiotherapy.
the chemical element of atomic number 89, a radioactive metallic element of the actinide series. It is rare in nature, occurring as an impurity in uranium ores.
the chemical element of atomic number 90, a white radioactive metal of the actinide series.
the chemical element of atomic number 91, a radioactive metal of the actinide series, occurring in small amounts as a product of the natural decay of uranium.
the chemical element of atomic number 92, a dense grey radioactive metal used as a fuel in nuclear reactors.
the chemical element of atomic number 93, a radioactive metal of the actinide series. Neptunium was discovered as a product of the bombardment of uranium with neutrons, and occurs only in trace amounts in nature.
the chemical element of atomic number 94, a dense silvery radioactive metal of the actinide series, used as a fuel in nuclear reactors and as an explosive in nuclear fission weapons. Plutonium only occurs in trace amounts in nature but is manufactured in nuclear reactors from uranium-238.
the chemical element of atomic number 95, a radioactive metal of the actinide series. It does not occur naturally and was first made by bombarding plutonium with neutrons.
the chemical element of atomic number 96, a radioactive metal of the actinide series. It does not occur naturally and was first made by bombarding plutonium with helium ions.
the chemical element of atomic number 97, a radioactive metal of the actinide series. It does not occur naturally and was first made by bombarding americium with helium ions.
the chemical element of atomic number 98, a radioactive metal of the actinide series, first produced by bombarding curium with helium ions.
the chemical element of atomic number 99, a radioactive metal of the actinide series. It does not occur naturally and was discovered in 1953 in debris from the first hydrogen bomb explosion.
the chemical element of atomic number 100, a radioactive metal of the actinide series. It does not occur naturally and was discovered in 1953 in the debris of the first hydrogen bomb explosion.
the chemical element of atomic number 101, a radioactive metal of the actinide series. It does not occur naturally and was first made in 1955 by bombarding einsteinium with helium ions.
the chemical element of atomic number 102, a radioactive metal of the actinide series. It does not occur naturally and was first produced by bombarding curium with carbon nuclei.
the chemical element of atomic number 103, a radioactive metal of the actinide series. It does not occur naturally and was first made by bombarding californium with boron nuclei.
the chemical element of atomic number 104, a very unstable element made by high-energy atomic collisions.
the chemical element of atomic number 105, a very unstable element made by high-energy atomic collisions.
the chemical element of atomic number 106, a very unstable element made by high-energy atomic collisions.
the chemical element of atomic number 107, a very unstable element made by high-energy atomic collisions.
the chemical element of atomic number 108, a very unstable element made by high-energy atomic collisions.
the chemical element of atomic number 109, a very unstable element made by high-energy atomic collisions.
the chemical element of atomic number 110, a radioactive element produced artificially.
the chemical element of atomic number 111, a radioactive element produced artificially.
the chemical element of atomic number 112, a highly unstable substance that is produced artificially.
a short-lived, artificially produced radioactive element of atomic number 113
the chemical element of atomic number 114, a very unstable element made by high-energy atomic collisions.
a short-lived, artificially produced radioactive element of atomic number 115
the chemical element of atomic number 116, a very unstable element made by high-energy atomic collisions.
a short-lived, artificially produced radioactive element of atomic number 117
a short-lived, artificially produced radioactive element of atomic number 118