a tool used for chopping wood, typically of iron with a steel edge and wooden handle.
a large crossbow used in ancient warfare for firing a spear.
a police officer's truncheon.
a short-range tubular rocket launcher used against tanks.
a primitive weapon consisting of a long tube through which an arrow or dart is propelled by force of the breath.
an implement with a handle and a solid surface, typically of wood, used for hitting the ball in games such as cricket, baseball, and table tennis.
a blade that may be fixed to the muzzle of a rifle and used to stab an opponent in hand-to-hand fighting.
a large, heavy piece of artillery, typically mounted on wheels, formerly used in warfare.
a large, heavy hammer used for such jobs as breaking rocks and driving in fence posts.
a medieval bow of a kind that is fixed across a wooden support and has a groove for the bolt and a mechanism for drawing and releasing the string.
a weapon that sprays out burning fuel.
a barbed missile resembling a spear that is attached to a long rope and thrown by hand or fired from a gun, used for catching whales and other large sea creatures.
a combined spear and battleaxe.
a light spear thrown in a competitive sport or as a weapon.
an instrument composed of a blade fixed into a handle, used for cutting or as a weapon.
a type of European sword characterized as having a cruciform hilt with a grip for two-handed use
a long weapon with a wooden shaft and a pointed steel head, formerly used by a horseman in charging.
a heavy club with a spiked metal head.
a broad, heavy knife used as an implement or weapon, originating in Central America and the Caribbean.
a weapon that consists of two sticks joined by a short length of cord, chain, or rawhide
a tool consisting of a long handle set at right angles in the middle of a curved iron or steel bar with a point at one end and a chisel edge or point at the other, used for breaking up hard ground or rock, and sometimes people's skull.
a heavy cavalry sword with a curved blade and a single cutting edge.
a tool used for cutting crops such as grass or corn, with a long curved blade at the end of a long pole attached to one or two short handles.
a forked stick, to which an elastic strap (or a pair of elastic bands connected by a small sling) is fastened to the two prongs, typically used for shooting small stones.
a weapon with a pointed tip, typically of steel, and a long shaft, used for thrusting or throwing.
a weapon with a long metal blade and a hilt with a hand guard, used for thrusting or striking and now typically worn as part of ceremonial dress.
a short dagger with a tapering blade.
a short sword with a curved blade that broadens towards the point, used originally in Eastern countries.
a machine used in medieval siege warfare for hurling large stones or other missiles.
a three-pronged spear, especially as an attribute of Poseidon (Neptune) or Britannia.
a weapon firing barbs attached by wires to batteries, causing temporary paralysis.
a strip of leather or length of cord fastened to a handle, used for flogging or beating a person or for urging on an animal.
a gun, especially one fired from shoulder level, having a long spirally grooved barrel intended to make a bullet spin and thereby have greater accuracy over a long distance.
a pistol with revolving chambers enabling several shots to be fired without reloading.
a thin, light sharp-pointed sword used for thrusting.
a stout pole 6–8 feet long, formerly used as a weapon.
an infantry weapon with a pointed steel or iron head on a long wooden shaft.
a short smooth-bore gun for firing shells (technically called bombs) at high angles.
a gun designed to fire cartridges that are more powerful than its calibre would suggest.
a long, single-edged sword used by Japanese samurai.